## Description
-   This project contains slack web tests which include:
    - Search Saved messaged

##### WebDriver management

The project currently handles only Chrome and Firefox
-  For local execution the setup and automatically configured by WebDriver manager library. This library automatically detects the os version as well as the compatible browser version and creates a session.

###### Prerequisites

- JAVA and MAVEN should be properly configured on the machine
- Docker desktop should be available if you prefer remote execution on dockerized grid.

##### Execution

###### List of System properties to pass:

- Provide browser name either firefox/chrome for this setup
    - E.g: -Dbrowser= "chrome"
- Slack registered user email
    - E.g -Demail="`<Email>`"
- Slack web url for the registered user.
    - E.g: -Dslack_url="https://anudeeptuniki.slack.com"
-   Slack web password
    - E.g -Dpasswd="`<Passwd>`"
-   User channel name
    - E.g: -Dchannel="automation"
-   Host where the selenium grid is running.As a prerequisite you have to run "docker-compose up" in your local
    This spins up a grid network. Which can be verified at "http://localhost:4444". If successful pass host as 'localhost' or leave empty if it is a local run
    - E.g: -Dhub_host="localhost"

###### Local Terminal

-   Navigate to the project directory and run the below command. Avoid "hub_host" as this is a local run.
-    **mvn clean test -Dbrowser="firefox" -DsuiteXmlFile="ui/suites/regression.xml" -Dslack_url="`<URL>`"  -Demail="`<EMAIL>`" -Dpasswd="`<PASSWD>`" -Dchannel="`<CHANNEL_NAME>`"**
###### Remote driver setup

-   Navigate to the project folder where you have "docker-compose.yaml" file
    Run command:
    "docker-compose up"
    
- This creates a selenium grid network with one chrome node and one firefox node.
  The setup can be verified by launching the URL: "http://localhost:4444" on your browser
- To run on remote driver pass the system property -Dhub_host="localhost" along with the desired browser -Dbrowser="chrome"/-Dbrowser="firefox"
  "chrome" is picked up by default
  
-   E.g: **mvn clean test -Dbrowser="firefox" -DsuiteXmlFile="ui/suites/regression.xml" -Dslack_url="`<URL>`"  -Demail="`<EMAIL>`" -Dpasswd="`<PASSWD>`" -Dchannel="`<CHANNEL_NAME>`" -Dhub_host="localhost"**

- Do not forget to set down you grid once you are done with it. Run "docker-compose down" to bring the grid down.
###### runner.sh

- This runner file has all the system properties. User can fill in those properties and run the runner.sh file from the terminal

###### Parallel execution
- Include parallel="tests" in the testng's .xml file for running all tests in parallel.
- For remote WebDriver execution since it required more nodes to be configured, while running the docker-compose add more instance to the services.
    - E.g: "docker-compose up chrome=2 firefox=2" (will create 4 container nodes which will share the tests while parallel execution)
  - E.g: "docker-compose up chrome=4" (will create 4 chrome container nodes which will share the tests while parallel execution)
##### Reports
- After execution of tests,the reports are generated in "target" folder. TestNG report is generated in "surefire-reports" and Extent report is generated by the name "Test-Automation-Report.html"
- A log file "test_execution.log" is also generated in the "target" folder